docs/src/block-editor/previewing-blocks.md, before:

---
pageClass: twill-doc
---

# Previewing Blocks

At the top right of a form where you enabled a block editor, you will find a blue button labeled "Editor". The idea is to provide a better user experience when working with blocks, where the frontend preview is being immediately rendered next to the form, in a full-screen experience.

You can enable the content editor individual block previews by providing a `resources/views/site/layouts/block.blade.php` blade layout file. This file will be treated as a _layout_, so it will need to yield a `content` section: `@yield('content')`. It will also need to include any frontend CSS/JS necessary to give the block the look and feel of the corresponding frontend layout. Here's a simple example:

```php
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title>#madewithtwill website</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{mix('css/app.css')}}">
</head>
<body>
<div>
    @yield('content')
</div>
<script src="{{mix('js/app.js')}}"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

If you would like to specify a custom layout view path, you can do so in `config/twill.php` at `twill.block_editor.block_single_layout`. A good way to share assets and structure from the frontend with these individual block previews is to create a parent layout and extend it from your block layout.

Commit message:

Twill block classes (#1421)
* Add block getData via helper class.

* Add preview data as well.

* Add empty check for error.

* Fix php compatability.

* Add documentation.

* Restore file.

* #1211: WIP: Block validation.

* #1211: Solid block validations

* #1211: Validation via prop wip

* #1211: Small refactoring + update docs

* #1211: Fix tests.

* #1211: Fix priority.

* Improve docs + fix languages for validation.

* Fix array access on block object

* getFormData method for blocks.

* Add documentation.

* Add inEditor

* ensure cleanup.

* Remove test timeout.

* Compatability.

Co-authored-by: Quentin Renard <quentin@area17.com>

docs/src/block-editor/previewing-blocks.md, after:

---
pageClass: twill-doc
---

# Previewing Blocks

At the top right of a form where you enabled a block editor, you will find a blue button labeled "Editor". The idea is to provide a better user experience when working with blocks, where the frontend preview is being immediately rendered next to the form, in a full-screen experience.

You can enable the content editor individual block previews by providing a `resources/views/site/layouts/block.blade.php` blade layout file. This file will be treated as a _layout_, so it will need to yield a `content` section: `@yield('content')`. It will also need to include any frontend CSS/JS necessary to give the block the look and feel of the corresponding frontend layout. Here's a simple example:

```php
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title>#madewithtwill website</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{mix('css/app.css')}}">
</head>
<body>
<div>
    @yield('content')
</div>
<script src="{{mix('js/app.js')}}"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

If you would like to specify a custom layout view path, you can do so in `config/twill.php` at `twill.block_editor.block_single_layout`.
A good way to share assets and structure from the frontend with these individual block previews is to create a parent layout and extend it from your block layout.

## Editor preview context

If needed you can use the existance of the variable `$inEditor` to conditionally add or remove items from your block
view file.

`$inEditor` is not set when not in a preview context.

```html
<div style="max-width: 500px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">
    @isset($inEditor)
      I am only visible in the editor
    @endisset
    {!! $block->translatedInput('text') !!}
</div>
```
