docs/src/getting-started/configuration.md, before:

---
pageClass: twill-doc
---

# Configuration

As mentioned above, Twill's default configuration allows you to get up and running quickly by providing environment variables.

Of course, you can override any of Twill's provided configurations values from the empty `config/twill.php` file that was published in your app when you ran the `twill:install` command.

## Enabled features

You can opt-in or opt-out from certain Twill features using the `enabled` array in your `config/twill.php` file. Values presented in the following code snippet are Twill's defaults:

```php
<?php

return [
    'enabled' => [
        'users-management' => true,
        'media-library' => true,
        'file-library' => true,
        'block-editor' => true,
        'buckets' => true,
        'users-image' => false,
        'settings' => true,
        'dashboard' => true,
        'search' => true,
        'users-description' => false,
        'activitylog' => true,
        'users-2fa' => false,
        'users-oauth' => false,
    ],
];
```

You do not need to override entire arrays of configuration options. For example, if you only want to disable Twill's dashboard, you do not need to include to entire `enabled` array to your own `config/twill.php` configuration file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'enabled' => [
        'dashboard' => false,
    ],
];
```

This is true to all following configuration arrays.


## Global configuration

By default, Twill uses Laravel default application namespace `App`. You  can provide your own using the `namespace` configuration in your `config/twill.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'namespace' => 'App',
];
```

You can also change the default variables that control where Twill's admin console is available:

```php
<?php

return [
    'admin_app_url' => env('ADMIN_APP_URL', 'admin.' . env('APP_URL')),
    'admin_app_path' => env('ADMIN_APP_PATH', ''),
];
```

If you have specific middleware needs, you can specify a custom middleware group for Twill's admin console routes:

```php
<?php

return [
    'admin_middleware_group' => 'web',
];
```

Twill registers its own exception handler in all controllers. If you need to customize it (to report errors on a 3rd party service like Sentry or Rollbar for example), you can opt-out from it in your `config/twill.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'bind_exception_handler' => false,
];
```

And then extend it from your own `app/Exceptions/Handler.php` class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Exceptions;

use A17\Twill\Exceptions\Handler as ExceptionHandler;
use Exception;
use Illuminate\Auth\AuthenticationException;

class Handler extends ExceptionHandler
...
```

Twill's users and their password resets are stored in `twill_users` and `twill_password_resets` tables respectively. If you started your application on Twill 1.1 or simply would like to provide custom tables names, use the following configuration options:

```php
<?php

return [
    'users_table' => 'twill_users',
    'password_resets_table' => 'twill_password_resets',
    'blocks_table' => 'blocks',
    'features_table' => 'features',
    'settings_table' => 'settings',
    'medias_table' => 'medias',
    'mediables_table' => 'mediables',
    'files_table' => 'files',
    'fileables_table' => 'fileables',
    'related_table' => 'related',
    'tags_table' => 'tags',
    'tagged_table' => 'tagged',
];
```

#### Migrations configuration

Since Laravel 5.8, migrations generated by Laravel use big integers on the `id` column. Twill migrations helpers can be configured to use regular integers for backwards compatibility.

```php
<?php

return [
    'migrations_use_big_integers' => true,
];
```

Since Twill 2.0, migrations are not published anymore but loaded automatically in Twill's service provider. 
Set to false to prevent this from happening if you need to customize Twill's tables.

```php
<?php

return [
    'load_default_migrations' => true,
];
```

#### Locale configuration

Since Twill 2.0, Twill's own UI can be translated using lang files. Users can choose their own preferred languages in their own settings,
but you might actually want to default to another language than English for all your users.
You can use the following configuration for example to set Twill's default CMS language to French:

```php
return [
    'locale' => 'fr',
    'fallback_locale' => 'en',
];
```

#### Publisher date and time format configuration

To change the format of the publication fields when using `publish_start_date` and `publish_end_date` on your model you can change these keys in `twill.php`.

```php
<?php

return [
    'publish_date_24h' => false, // enable 24h format in publisher dates
    'publish_date_format' => 'd F Y H:i', // format used by publication date pickers
    'publish_date_display_format' => 'DD MMMM YYYY HH:mm', // format used when displaying the publication date
];
```

#### Multiple subdomains CMS routing

```php
<?php

return [
    'support_subdomain_admin_routing' => false,
    'admin_app_subdomain' => 'admin',
    'active_subdomain' => null,
];
```

Enabling this allows adding top level keys to Twill's navigation and dashboard modules configuration, mapping to a subdomain.
This is a very simple way to implement multi-tenant CMS/sites in Twill. A navigation array looking like the following would expose your CMS on
the `admin.subdomain1.app-url.test` and `admin.subdomain2.app-url.test` urls, with its corresponding links: 

```php
<?php

return [
  'subdomain1' => [
    'module1' => [...],
    ...
  ],
  'subdomain2' => [
    'module2' => [...]
    ...
  ]
];
```

App name can be set per subdomain using the 'twill.app_names' configuration array. For our example above:

```php
<?php

return [
  'app_names' => [
    'subdomain1' => 'App 1 name',
    'subdomain2' => 'App 2 name',
  ],
];
```

Subdomain configuration nesting also applies to the dashboard `modules` key.

You can also provide a custom `block_single_layout` per subdomain by creating a Blade file under `resources/views/subdomain/layouts/blocks`.

## Media library

The `media_library` configuration array in `config/twill.php` allows you to provide Twill with your configuration for the media library disk, endpoint type and others options depending on your endpoint type. Most options can be controlled through environment variables, as you can see in the default configuration provided:

```php
<?php

return [
    'media_library' => [
        'disk' => 'twill_media_library',
        'endpoint_type' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE', 's3'),
        'cascade_delete' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE', false),
        'local_path' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH', 'uploads'),
        'image_service' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE', 'A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Imgix'),
        'acl' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_ACL', 'private'),
        'filesize_limit' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT', 50),
        'allowed_extensions' => ['svg', 'jpg', 'gif', 'png', 'jpeg'],
        'init_alt_text_from_filename' => true,
        'prefix_uuid_with_local_path' => config('twill.file_library.prefix_uuid_with_local_path', false),
        'translated_form_fields' => false,
    ],
];
```

Twill's media library supports the following endpoint types: `s3`, `azure` and `local`. 

#### S3 endpoint

By default, Twill uses the `s3` endpoint type to store your uploads on an AWS S3 bucket. To authorize uploads to S3, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
```

Optionally, you can use the `S3_REGION` variable to specify a region other than S3's default region (`us-east-1`).

If you prefer to use another S3 compliant storage such as Minio, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
S3_ENDPOINT=https://YOUR_S3_DOMAIN
```

When uploading images to S3, Twill sets the `acl` parameter to `private`. This is because images in your bucket should not be publicly accessible when using a service like [Imgix](https://imgix.com) on top of it. Only Imgix should have read-only access to your bucket, while your application obviously needs to have write access. If you intend to access images uploaded to S3 directly, set the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_ACL` variable or `acl` configuration option to `public-read`.

#### Azure endpoint

Twill supports `azure` endpoint type to store your uploads on an Microsoft Azure container.
 
To authorize uploads to Azure, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=azure

AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY
AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME
AZURE_CONTAINER=AZURE_CONTAINER
```

#### Local endpoint

If you want your uploads to be stored on the server where your Laravel application is running, use the `local` endpoint type.  Define the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH` environment variable or the `media_library.local_path` configuration option to provide Twill with your preferred upload path:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH=uploads
```

To avoid running into `too large` errors when uploading to your server, you can choose to limit uploads through Twill using the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable or `filesize_limit` configuration option. It is set to 50mb by default. Make sure to setup your PHP and webserver (apache, nginx, ....) to allow for the upload size specified here.
When using the `s3` endpoint type, uploads are not limited in size.

#### Cascading uploads deletions

By default, Twill will not delete images when deleting from Twill's media library UI, wether it is on S3 or locally.

You can decide to physically delete uploaded images using the `cascade_delete` option, which is also controlled through the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE` boolean environment variable:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE=false
```

#### Allowed extensions

The `allowed_extensions` configuration option is an array of file extensions that Twill's media library's uploader will accept. By default, `svg`, `jpg`, `gif`, `png` and `jpeg` extensions are allowed.

#### Images rendering

To render uploaded images, Twill's preferred service is [Imgix](https://imgix.com).

If you do not want or cannot use a third party service, or have very limited image rendering needs, Twill also provides a local image rendering service powered by [Glide](https://glide.thephpleague.com/). The following .env variables should get you up and running:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE=A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Glide
```

If you want to add support for other image formats, which aren't covered by Glide, you can specify an array of extensions. For files matching the ending, the original media URL will be returned, instead of the modified one. For this, you can specify the following configuration key: `glide.original_media_for_extensions`

## Imgix

As noted above, by default, Twill uses and recommends using [Imgix](https://imgix.com) to transform, optimize, and intelligently cache your uploaded images. 

Specify your Imgix source url using the `IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST` environment variable or `source_host` configuration option.

```bash
IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST=source.imgix.net
```

By default, Twill will render Imgix urls with the `https` scheme. We do not see any reason why you would do so nowadays, but you can decide to opt-out using the `IMGIX_USE_HTTPS` environment variable or `use_https` configuration option.

Imgix offers the ability to use signed urls to prevent users from accessing images without parameters or different parameters than the ones you choose to use in your own application. You can enable that feature in Twill using the `IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS` environment variable or `use_signed_urls` configuration option. If you enable signed urls, Imgix provides you with a signature key. Provide it to Twill using the `IMGIX_SIGN_KEY` environment variable. 

```bash
IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS=true
IMGIX_SIGN_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

:::danger
You should never store any sort of credentials in source control (eg. Git). 

That's exactly why in the case of the Imgix signature key, we do not say that you could provide it to Twill using the sign_key configuration option of the Imgix configuration array.

Always use environment variables for credentials.
:::

Finally, Twill's default Imgix configuration includes 4 different image transformation parameter sets that are used by helpers you will find in the [media library's documentation](/media-library/):

- `default_params`: used by all image url functions in `A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Imgix` but overridden by the following parameter sets
- `lqip_default_params`: used by the Low Quality Image Placeholder url function
- `social_default_params`: used by the social image url function (for Facebook, Twitter, ... shares)
- `cms_default_params`: used by the CMS image url function. This only affects rendering of images in Twill's admin console (eg. in the media library and image fields).

See [Imgix's API reference](https://docs.imgix.com/apis/url) for more information about those parameters.

```php
<?php

return [
    'imgix' => [
        'default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'jpg',
            'q' => '80',
            'auto' => 'compress,format',
            'fit' => 'min',
        ],
        'lqip_default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'gif',
            'auto' => 'compress',
            'blur' => 100,
            'dpr' => 1,
        ],
        'social_default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'jpg',
            'w' => 900,
            'h' => 470,
            'fit' => 'crop',
            'crop' => 'entropy',
        ],
        'cms_default_params' => [
            'q' => 60,
            'dpr' => 1,
        ],
        'source_host' => env('IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST'),
        'use_https' => env('IMGIX_USE_HTTPS', true),
        'use_signed_urls' => env('IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS', false),
        'sign_key' => env('IMGIX_SIGN_KEY'),
    ],
];
```

## File library

The `file_library` configuration array in `config/twill.php` allows you to provide Twill with your configuration for the file library disk, endpoint type and other options depending on your endpoint type. Most options can be controlled through environment variables, as you can see in the default configuration provided:

```php
<?php

return [
    'file_library' => [
        'disk' => 'twill_file_library',
        'endpoint_type' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE', 's3'),
        'cascade_delete' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE', false),
        'local_path' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH', 'uploads'),
        'file_service' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_FILE_SERVICE', 'A17\Twill\Services\FileLibrary\Disk'),
        'acl' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_ACL', 'public-read'),
        'filesize_limit' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT', 50),
        'allowed_extensions' => [],
        'prefix_uuid_with_local_path' => false,
    ],
];
```

Twill's file library supports the following endpoint types: `s3` and `local`. 

#### S3 endpoint

By default, Twill uses the `s3` endpoint type to store your uploads on an AWS S3 bucket. To authorize uploads to S3, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
```

Optionally, you can use the `S3_REGION` variable to specify a region other than S3's default region (`us-east-1`).

When uploading files to S3, Twill sets the `acl` parameter to `public-read`. This is because Twill's default file service produces direct S3 urls. If you do not intend to access files uploaded to S3 directly, set the `FILE_LIBRARY_ACL` variable or `acl` configuration option to `public-read`.

#### Local endpoint

If you want your uploads to be stored on the server where your Laravel application is running, use the `local` endpoint type.  Define the `FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH` environment variable or the `file_library.local_path` configuration option to provide Twill with your preferred upload path. Always include a trailing slash like in the following example:

```bash
FILE_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH=uploads/
```

To avoid running into `too large` errors when uploading to your server, you can choose to limit uploads through Twill using the `FILE_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable or `filesize_limit` configuration option. It is set to 50mb by default. Make sure to setup your PHP and webserver (apache, nginx, ....) to allow for the upload size specified here.
When using the `s3` endpoint type, uploads are not limited in size.

#### Cascading uploads deletions

By default, Twill will not delete files when deleting from Twill's file library's UI, wether it is on S3 or locally.

You can decide to physically delete uploaded files using the `cascade_delete` option, which is also controlled through the `FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE` boolean environment variable:

```bash
FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE=false
```

#### Files url service

Twill's provided service for files creates direct urls to the disk they were uploaded to (ie. S3 urls or urls on your domain depending on your endpoint type). You can change the default service using the `FILE_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE` environment variable or the `file_library.image_service` configuration option.

See the [file library's documentation](/media-library/file-library.html) for more information.


#### Allowed extensions

The `allowed_extensions` configuration option is an array of file extensions that Twill's file library uploader will accept. By default, it is empty, all extensions are allowed.

Commit message:

[2.x] Laravel 9 support (#1243)
* [WIP] Laravel 9 support

* Add new laravel-activitylog columns

* Add Laravel 9 and PHP 8.1 tests

* Revert tests workflow fail-fast strategy

* Revert tests workflow stability disabling

* Update composer stability requirements

* Add php-cs-fixer 3 compat

* Use Laravel 9 support branch for astrotomic/laravel-translatable

* Add GitHub token to composer

* Use Laravel 9 support branch for cartalyst/tags

* Use Laravel 9 support branch for kalnoy/nestedset

* Use automated GitHub token

* Support flysystem-aws-s3-v3 new versions

* Remove dependency on matthewbdaly/laravel-azure-storage

* Fix test typo

* Update dependency to stable.

* Empty trigger.

* Reset astronomic/laravel-translatable version constraint

* Remove laravel-translatable fork

* Attempt a pipeline change.

* Change order again.

* Updated nestedset version.

* Add debug to composer command.

* Fix tags dependency.

* Fix custom S3 endpoints

Also prepare for Flysystem changes needed for Laravel 9 support (the client is not exposed by the adapter anymore in Flysystem 2+)

* Add doc for cors in glide.

Co-authored-by: Harings Rob <haringsrob@gmail.com>

docs/src/getting-started/configuration.md, after:

---
pageClass: twill-doc
---

# Configuration

As mentioned above, Twill's default configuration allows you to get up and running quickly by providing environment variables.

Of course, you can override any of Twill's provided configurations values from the empty `config/twill.php` file that was published in your app when you ran the `twill:install` command.

## Enabled features

You can opt-in or opt-out from certain Twill features using the `enabled` array in your `config/twill.php` file. Values presented in the following code snippet are Twill's defaults:

```php
<?php

return [
    'enabled' => [
        'users-management' => true,
        'media-library' => true,
        'file-library' => true,
        'block-editor' => true,
        'buckets' => true,
        'users-image' => false,
        'settings' => true,
        'dashboard' => true,
        'search' => true,
        'users-description' => false,
        'activitylog' => true,
        'users-2fa' => false,
        'users-oauth' => false,
    ],
];
```

You do not need to override entire arrays of configuration options. For example, if you only want to disable Twill's dashboard, you do not need to include to entire `enabled` array to your own `config/twill.php` configuration file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'enabled' => [
        'dashboard' => false,
    ],
];
```

This is true to all following configuration arrays.


## Global configuration

By default, Twill uses Laravel default application namespace `App`. You  can provide your own using the `namespace` configuration in your `config/twill.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'namespace' => 'App',
];
```

You can also change the default variables that control where Twill's admin console is available:

```php
<?php

return [
    'admin_app_url' => env('ADMIN_APP_URL', 'admin.' . env('APP_URL')),
    'admin_app_path' => env('ADMIN_APP_PATH', ''),
];
```

If you have specific middleware needs, you can specify a custom middleware group for Twill's admin console routes:

```php
<?php

return [
    'admin_middleware_group' => 'web',
];
```

Twill registers its own exception handler in all controllers. If you need to customize it (to report errors on a 3rd party service like Sentry or Rollbar for example), you can opt-out from it in your `config/twill.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'bind_exception_handler' => false,
];
```

And then extend it from your own `app/Exceptions/Handler.php` class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Exceptions;

use A17\Twill\Exceptions\Handler as ExceptionHandler;
use Exception;
use Illuminate\Auth\AuthenticationException;

class Handler extends ExceptionHandler
...
```

Twill's users and their password resets are stored in `twill_users` and `twill_password_resets` tables respectively. If you started your application on Twill 1.1 or simply would like to provide custom tables names, use the following configuration options:

```php
<?php

return [
    'users_table' => 'twill_users',
    'password_resets_table' => 'twill_password_resets',
    'blocks_table' => 'blocks',
    'features_table' => 'features',
    'settings_table' => 'settings',
    'medias_table' => 'medias',
    'mediables_table' => 'mediables',
    'files_table' => 'files',
    'fileables_table' => 'fileables',
    'related_table' => 'related',
    'tags_table' => 'tags',
    'tagged_table' => 'tagged',
];
```

#### Migrations configuration

Since Laravel 5.8, migrations generated by Laravel use big integers on the `id` column. Twill migrations helpers can be configured to use regular integers for backwards compatibility.

```php
<?php

return [
    'migrations_use_big_integers' => true,
];
```

Since Twill 2.0, migrations are not published anymore but loaded automatically in Twill's service provider. 
Set to false to prevent this from happening if you need to customize Twill's tables.

```php
<?php

return [
    'load_default_migrations' => true,
];
```

#### Locale configuration

Since Twill 2.0, Twill's own UI can be translated using lang files. Users can choose their own preferred languages in their own settings,
but you might actually want to default to another language than English for all your users.
You can use the following configuration for example to set Twill's default CMS language to French:

```php
return [
    'locale' => 'fr',
    'fallback_locale' => 'en',
];
```

#### Publisher date and time format configuration

To change the format of the publication fields when using `publish_start_date` and `publish_end_date` on your model you can change these keys in `twill.php`.

```php
<?php

return [
    'publish_date_24h' => false, // enable 24h format in publisher dates
    'publish_date_format' => 'd F Y H:i', // format used by publication date pickers
    'publish_date_display_format' => 'DD MMMM YYYY HH:mm', // format used when displaying the publication date
];
```

#### Multiple subdomains CMS routing

```php
<?php

return [
    'support_subdomain_admin_routing' => false,
    'admin_app_subdomain' => 'admin',
    'active_subdomain' => null,
];
```

Enabling this allows adding top level keys to Twill's navigation and dashboard modules configuration, mapping to a subdomain.
This is a very simple way to implement multi-tenant CMS/sites in Twill. A navigation array looking like the following would expose your CMS on
the `admin.subdomain1.app-url.test` and `admin.subdomain2.app-url.test` urls, with its corresponding links: 

```php
<?php

return [
  'subdomain1' => [
    'module1' => [...],
    ...
  ],
  'subdomain2' => [
    'module2' => [...]
    ...
  ]
];
```

App name can be set per subdomain using the 'twill.app_names' configuration array. For our example above:

```php
<?php

return [
  'app_names' => [
    'subdomain1' => 'App 1 name',
    'subdomain2' => 'App 2 name',
  ],
];
```

Subdomain configuration nesting also applies to the dashboard `modules` key.

You can also provide a custom `block_single_layout` per subdomain by creating a Blade file under `resources/views/subdomain/layouts/blocks`.

## Media library

The `media_library` configuration array in `config/twill.php` allows you to provide Twill with your configuration for the media library disk, endpoint type and others options depending on your endpoint type. Most options can be controlled through environment variables, as you can see in the default configuration provided:

```php
<?php

return [
    'media_library' => [
        'disk' => 'twill_media_library',
        'endpoint_type' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE', 's3'),
        'cascade_delete' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE', false),
        'local_path' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH', 'uploads'),
        'image_service' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE', 'A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Imgix'),
        'acl' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_ACL', 'private'),
        'filesize_limit' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT', 50),
        'allowed_extensions' => ['svg', 'jpg', 'gif', 'png', 'jpeg'],
        'init_alt_text_from_filename' => true,
        'prefix_uuid_with_local_path' => config('twill.file_library.prefix_uuid_with_local_path', false),
        'translated_form_fields' => false,
    ],
];
```

Twill's media library supports the following endpoint types: `s3`, `azure` and `local`. 

#### S3 endpoint

By default, Twill uses the `s3` endpoint type to store your uploads on an AWS S3 bucket. To authorize uploads to S3, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
```

Optionally, you can use the `S3_REGION` variable to specify a region other than S3's default region (`us-east-1`).

If you prefer to use another S3 compliant storage such as Minio, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
S3_ENDPOINT=https://YOUR_S3_DOMAIN
```

When uploading images to S3, Twill sets the `acl` parameter to `private`. This is because images in your bucket should not be publicly accessible when using a service like [Imgix](https://imgix.com) on top of it. Only Imgix should have read-only access to your bucket, while your application obviously needs to have write access. If you intend to access images uploaded to S3 directly, set the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_ACL` variable or `acl` configuration option to `public-read`.

#### Azure endpoint

Twill supports `azure` endpoint type to store your uploads on an Microsoft Azure container.
 
To authorize uploads to Azure, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=azure

AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY
AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME
AZURE_CONTAINER=AZURE_CONTAINER
```

#### Local endpoint

If you want your uploads to be stored on the server where your Laravel application is running, use the `local` endpoint type.  Define the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH` environment variable or the `media_library.local_path` configuration option to provide Twill with your preferred upload path:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH=uploads
```

To avoid running into `too large` errors when uploading to your server, you can choose to limit uploads through Twill using the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable or `filesize_limit` configuration option. It is set to 50mb by default. Make sure to setup your PHP and webserver (apache, nginx, ....) to allow for the upload size specified here.
When using the `s3` endpoint type, uploads are not limited in size.

#### Cascading uploads deletions

By default, Twill will not delete images when deleting from Twill's media library UI, wether it is on S3 or locally.

You can decide to physically delete uploaded images using the `cascade_delete` option, which is also controlled through the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE` boolean environment variable:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE=false
```

#### Allowed extensions

The `allowed_extensions` configuration option is an array of file extensions that Twill's media library's uploader will accept. By default, `svg`, `jpg`, `gif`, `png` and `jpeg` extensions are allowed.

#### Images rendering

To render uploaded images, Twill's preferred service is [Imgix](https://imgix.com).

If you do not want or cannot use a third party service, or have very limited image rendering needs, Twill also provides a local image rendering service powered by [Glide](https://glide.thephpleague.com/). The following .env variables should get you up and running:

::: warning
If the media cropper is not working, it is adviced to add `img/*` to the `cors.php` exceptions.
:::

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE=A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Glide
```

If you want to add support for other image formats, which aren't covered by Glide, you can specify an array of extensions. For files matching the ending, the original media URL will be returned, instead of the modified one. For this, you can specify the following configuration key: `glide.original_media_for_extensions`

## Imgix

As noted above, by default, Twill uses and recommends using [Imgix](https://imgix.com) to transform, optimize, and intelligently cache your uploaded images. 

Specify your Imgix source url using the `IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST` environment variable or `source_host` configuration option.

```bash
IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST=source.imgix.net
```

By default, Twill will render Imgix urls with the `https` scheme. We do not see any reason why you would do so nowadays, but you can decide to opt-out using the `IMGIX_USE_HTTPS` environment variable or `use_https` configuration option.

Imgix offers the ability to use signed urls to prevent users from accessing images without parameters or different parameters than the ones you choose to use in your own application. You can enable that feature in Twill using the `IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS` environment variable or `use_signed_urls` configuration option. If you enable signed urls, Imgix provides you with a signature key. Provide it to Twill using the `IMGIX_SIGN_KEY` environment variable. 

```bash
IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS=true
IMGIX_SIGN_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

:::danger
You should never store any sort of credentials in source control (eg. Git). 

That's exactly why in the case of the Imgix signature key, we do not say that you could provide it to Twill using the sign_key configuration option of the Imgix configuration array.

Always use environment variables for credentials.
:::

Finally, Twill's default Imgix configuration includes 4 different image transformation parameter sets that are used by helpers you will find in the [media library's documentation](/media-library/):

- `default_params`: used by all image url functions in `A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Imgix` but overridden by the following parameter sets
- `lqip_default_params`: used by the Low Quality Image Placeholder url function
- `social_default_params`: used by the social image url function (for Facebook, Twitter, ... shares)
- `cms_default_params`: used by the CMS image url function. This only affects rendering of images in Twill's admin console (eg. in the media library and image fields).

See [Imgix's API reference](https://docs.imgix.com/apis/url) for more information about those parameters.

```php
<?php

return [
    'imgix' => [
        'default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'jpg',
            'q' => '80',
            'auto' => 'compress,format',
            'fit' => 'min',
        ],
        'lqip_default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'gif',
            'auto' => 'compress',
            'blur' => 100,
            'dpr' => 1,
        ],
        'social_default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'jpg',
            'w' => 900,
            'h' => 470,
            'fit' => 'crop',
            'crop' => 'entropy',
        ],
        'cms_default_params' => [
            'q' => 60,
            'dpr' => 1,
        ],
        'source_host' => env('IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST'),
        'use_https' => env('IMGIX_USE_HTTPS', true),
        'use_signed_urls' => env('IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS', false),
        'sign_key' => env('IMGIX_SIGN_KEY'),
    ],
];
```

## File library

The `file_library` configuration array in `config/twill.php` allows you to provide Twill with your configuration for the file library disk, endpoint type and other options depending on your endpoint type. Most options can be controlled through environment variables, as you can see in the default configuration provided:

```php
<?php

return [
    'file_library' => [
        'disk' => 'twill_file_library',
        'endpoint_type' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE', 's3'),
        'cascade_delete' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE', false),
        'local_path' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH', 'uploads'),
        'file_service' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_FILE_SERVICE', 'A17\Twill\Services\FileLibrary\Disk'),
        'acl' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_ACL', 'public-read'),
        'filesize_limit' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT', 50),
        'allowed_extensions' => [],
        'prefix_uuid_with_local_path' => false,
    ],
];
```

Twill's file library supports the following endpoint types: `s3` and `local`. 

#### S3 endpoint

By default, Twill uses the `s3` endpoint type to store your uploads on an AWS S3 bucket. To authorize uploads to S3, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
```

Optionally, you can use the `S3_REGION` variable to specify a region other than S3's default region (`us-east-1`).

When uploading files to S3, Twill sets the `acl` parameter to `public-read`. This is because Twill's default file service produces direct S3 urls. If you do not intend to access files uploaded to S3 directly, set the `FILE_LIBRARY_ACL` variable or `acl` configuration option to `public-read`.

#### Local endpoint

If you want your uploads to be stored on the server where your Laravel application is running, use the `local` endpoint type.  Define the `FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH` environment variable or the `file_library.local_path` configuration option to provide Twill with your preferred upload path. Always include a trailing slash like in the following example:

```bash
FILE_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH=uploads/
```

To avoid running into `too large` errors when uploading to your server, you can choose to limit uploads through Twill using the `FILE_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable or `filesize_limit` configuration option. It is set to 50mb by default. Make sure to setup your PHP and webserver (apache, nginx, ....) to allow for the upload size specified here.
When using the `s3` endpoint type, uploads are not limited in size.

#### Cascading uploads deletions

By default, Twill will not delete files when deleting from Twill's file library's UI, wether it is on S3 or locally.

You can decide to physically delete uploaded files using the `cascade_delete` option, which is also controlled through the `FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE` boolean environment variable:

```bash
FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE=false
```

#### Files url service

Twill's provided service for files creates direct urls to the disk they were uploaded to (ie. S3 urls or urls on your domain depending on your endpoint type). You can change the default service using the `FILE_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE` environment variable or the `file_library.image_service` configuration option.

See the [file library's documentation](/media-library/file-library.html) for more information.


#### Allowed extensions

The `allowed_extensions` configuration option is an array of file extensions that Twill's file library uploader will accept. By default, it is empty, all extensions are allowed.
