docs/content/1_documentation/4_form-fields/datepicker.md, before:

# Datepicker

![screenshot](/assets/datepicker.png)

:::tabs=currenttab.FormBuilder&items.FormBuilder|FormView|Directive:::
:::tab=name.FormBuilder:::

```php
DatePicker::make()
    ->name('event_date')
```

:::#tab:::
:::tab=name.FormView:::

```blade
<x-twill::date-picker 
    name="event_date" 
    label="Event date"
    :minDate="\Carbon\Carbon::now()->format('Y-m-d H:i)"
    maxDate="2030-01-01 12:00"
/>
```

:::#tab:::
:::tab=name.Directive:::

```blade
@formField('date_picker', [
    'name' => 'event_date',
    'label' => 'Event date',
    'minDate' => '2017-09-10 12:00',
    'maxDate' => '2017-12-10 12:00'
])
```

:::#tab:::
:::#tabs:::

| Option          | Description                                                                                                              | Type/values    | Default value |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------|:--------------|
| name            | Name of the field                                                                                                        | string         |               |
| label           | Label of the field                                                                                                       | string         |               |
| minDate         | Minimum selectable date                                                                                                  | string         |               |
| maxDate         | Maximum selectable date                                                                                                  | string         |               |
| withTime        | Define if the field will display the time selector                                                                       | true<br/>false | true          |
| time24Hr        | Pick time with a 24h picker instead of AM/PM                                                                             | true<br/>false | false         |
| allowClear      | Adds a button to clear the field                                                                                         | true<br/>false | false         |
| allowInput      | Allow manually editing the selected date in the field                                                                    | true<br/>false | false         |
| altFormat       | Format used by [flatpickr](https://flatpickr.js.org/formatting/)                                                         | string         | F j, Y        |
| hourIncrement   | Time picker hours increment                                                                                              | number         | 1             |
| minuteIncrement | Time picker minutes increment                                                                                            | number         | 30            |
| note            | Hint message displayed above the field                                                                                   | string         |               |
| required        | Displays an indicator that this field is required<br/>A backend validation rule is required to prevent users from saving | true<br/>false | false         |
| disabled        | Disables the field                                                                                                       | boolean        | false         | 

A migration to save a `date_picker` field would be:

```php
Schema::table('posts', function (Blueprint $table) {
    ...
    $table->date('event_date')->nullable();
    ...
});
// OR
Schema::table('posts', function (Blueprint $table) {
    ...
    $table->dateTime('event_date')->nullable();
    ...
});
```

When used in a [block](/block-editor/creating-a-block-editor.html), no migration is needed.

Commit message:

Updating true/false to boolean primitive name

docs/content/1_documentation/4_form-fields/datepicker.md, after:

# Datepicker

![screenshot](/assets/datepicker.png)

:::tabs=currenttab.FormBuilder&items.FormBuilder|FormView|Directive:::
:::tab=name.FormBuilder:::

```php
DatePicker::make()
    ->name('event_date')
```

:::#tab:::
:::tab=name.FormView:::

```blade
<x-twill::date-picker 
    name="event_date" 
    label="Event date"
    :minDate="\Carbon\Carbon::now()->format('Y-m-d H:i)"
    maxDate="2030-01-01 12:00"
/>
```

:::#tab:::
:::tab=name.Directive:::

```blade
@formField('date_picker', [
    'name' => 'event_date',
    'label' => 'Event date',
    'minDate' => '2017-09-10 12:00',
    'maxDate' => '2017-12-10 12:00'
])
```

:::#tab:::
:::#tabs:::

| Option          | Description                                                                                                              | Type/values    | Default value |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------|:--------------|
| name            | Name of the field                                                                                                        | string         |               |
| label           | Label of the field                                                                                                       | string         |               |
| minDate         | Minimum selectable date                                                                                                  | string         |               |
| maxDate         | Maximum selectable date                                                                                                  | string         |               |
| withTime        | Define if the field will display the time selector                                                                       | boolean | true          |
| time24Hr        | Pick time with a 24h picker instead of AM/PM                                                                             | boolean | false         |
| allowClear      | Adds a button to clear the field                                                                                         | boolean | false         |
| allowInput      | Allow manually editing the selected date in the field                                                                    | boolean | false         |
| altFormat       | Format used by [flatpickr](https://flatpickr.js.org/formatting/)                                                         | string         | F j, Y        |
| hourIncrement   | Time picker hours increment                                                                                              | number         | 1             |
| minuteIncrement | Time picker minutes increment                                                                                            | number         | 30            |
| note            | Hint message displayed above the field                                                                                   | string         |               |
| required        | Displays an indicator that this field is required<br/>A backend validation rule is required to prevent users from saving | boolean | false         |
| disabled        | Disables the field                                                                                                       | boolean        | false         | 

A migration to save a `date_picker` field would be:

```php
Schema::table('posts', function (Blueprint $table) {
    ...
    $table->date('event_date')->nullable();
    ...
});
// OR
Schema::table('posts', function (Blueprint $table) {
    ...
    $table->dateTime('event_date')->nullable();
    ...
});
```

When used in a [block](/block-editor/creating-a-block-editor.html), no migration is needed.
