# Configuration

Twill's default configuration allows you to get up and running quickly by providing environment variables.

Of course, you can override any of Twill's provided configurations values from the empty `config/twill.php` file that was published in your app when you ran the `twill:install` command.

## Enabled features

You can opt-in or opt-out from certain Twill features using the `enabled` array in your `config/twill.php` file. Values presented in the following code snippet are Twill's defaults:

```php
<?php

return [
    'enabled' => [
        'users-management' => true,
        'media-library' => true,
        'file-library' => true,
        'block-editor' => true,
        'buckets' => true,
        'users-image' => false,
        'settings' => true,
        'dashboard' => true,
        'search' => true,
        'users-description' => false,
        'activitylog' => true,
        'users-2fa' => false,
        'users-oauth' => false,
        'permissions-management' => false,
    ],
];
```

You do not need to override entire arrays of configuration options. For example, if you only want to disable Twill's dashboard, you do not need to include to entire `enabled` array to your own `config/twill.php` configuration file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'enabled' => [
        'dashboard' => false,
    ],
];
```

This is true to all following configuration arrays.

## Global configuration

By default, Twill uses Laravel default application namespace `App`. You can provide your own using the `namespace` configuration in your `config/twill.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'namespace' => 'App',
];
```

You can also change the default variables that control where Twill's admin console is available:

```php
<?php

return [
    'admin_app_url' => env('ADMIN_APP_URL', null),
    'admin_app_path' => ltrim(env('ADMIN_APP_PATH', env('ADMIN_APP_URL', null) ? '' : 'admin'), '/'),
    'admin_app_strict' => env('ADMIN_APP_STRICT', false),
];
```

If you have specific middleware needs, you can specify a custom middleware group for Twill's admin console routes:

```php
<?php

return [
    'admin_middleware_group' => 'web',
];
```

Twill registers its own exception handler in all controllers. If you need to customize it (to report errors on a 3rd party service like Sentry or Rollbar for example), you can opt-out from it in your `config/twill.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    'bind_exception_handler' => false,
];
```

And then extend it from your own `app/Exceptions/Handler.php` class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Exceptions;

use A17\Twill\Exceptions\Handler as ExceptionHandler;
use Exception;
use Illuminate\Auth\AuthenticationException;

class Handler extends ExceptionHandler
...
```

If you would like to provide custom tables names, use the following configuration options:

```php
<?php

return [
    'blocks_table' => 'twill_blocks',
    'features_table' => 'twill_features',
    'fileables_table' => 'twill_fileables',
    'files_table' => 'twill_files',
    'mediables_table' => 'twill_mediables',
    'medias_table' => 'twill_medias',
    'password_resets_table' => 'twill_password_resets',
    'related_table' => 'twill_related',
    'settings_table' => 'twill_settings',
    'tagged_table' => 'twill_tagged',
    'tags_table' => 'twill_tags',
    'users_oauth_table' => 'twill_users_oauth',
    'users_table' => 'twill_users',
];
```

### TwillConfig Facade

As of Twill 3.x we are slowly transitioning to a new way of setting config. While this will not be added for all options some can be set using the `TwillConfig` facade in your app service provider:

```php
...
use A17\Twill\Facades\TwillConfig;

class AppServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider
{
    public function register(): void
    {
        TwillConfig::maxRevisions(5);
    }
}
```

Possible options are:

**TwillConfig::maxRevisions(int)**: Limits the max amount of revision for all revisionable content. This can be overwritten on a model level, see [setting model revisions](../3_modules/10_models.md#content-hasrevisions)

### Migrations configuration

Since Laravel 5.8, migrations generated by Laravel use big integers on the `id` column. Twill migrations helpers can be configured to use regular integers for backwards compatibility.

```php
<?php

return [
    'migrations_use_big_integers' => true,
];
```

Since Twill 2.0, migrations are not published anymore but loaded automatically in Twill's service provider.
Set to false to prevent this from happening if you need to customize Twill's tables.

```php
<?php

return [
    'load_default_migrations' => true,
];
```

### Locale configuration

Since Twill 2.0, Twill's own UI can be translated using lang files. Users can choose their own preferred languages in their own settings, but you might actually want to default to another language than English for all your users. You can use the following configuration for example to set Twill's default CMS language to French:

```php
return [
    'locale' => 'fr',
    'fallback_locale' => 'en',
];
```

### Publisher date and time format configuration

To change the format of the publication fields when using `publish_start_date` and `publish_end_date` on your model you can change these keys in `twill.php`.

```php
<?php

return [
    'publish_date_24h' => false, // enable 24h format in publisher dates
    'publish_date_format' => 'd F Y H:i', // format used by publication date pickers
    'publish_date_display_format' => 'DD MMMM YYYY HH:mm', // format used when displaying the publication date
];
```

### Multiple subdomains CMS routing

```php
<?php

return [
    'support_subdomain_admin_routing' => false,
    'admin_app_subdomain' => 'admin',
    'active_subdomain' => null,
];
```

Enabling this allows adding top level keys to Twill's navigation and dashboard modules configuration, mapping to a subdomain. This is a very simple way to implement multi-tenant CMS/sites in Twill. A navigation array looking like the following would expose your CMS on the `admin.subdomain1.app-url.test` and `admin.subdomain2.app-url.test` urls, with its corresponding links:

```php
<?php

return [
    'subdomain1' => [
        'module1' => [...],
        ...
    ],
    'subdomain2' => [
        'module2' => [...]
        ...
    ]
];
```

App name can be set per subdomain using the 'twill.app_names' configuration array. For our example above:

```php
<?php

return [
  'app_names' => [
    'subdomain1' => 'App 1 name',
    'subdomain2' => 'App 2 name',
  ],
];
```

Subdomain configuration nesting also applies to the dashboard `modules` key.

You can also provide a custom `block_single_layout` per subdomain by creating a Blade file
under `resources/views/subdomain/layouts/blocks`.

## Media library

The `media_library` configuration array in `config/twill.php` allows you to provide Twill with your configuration for the media library disk, endpoint type and others options depending on your endpoint type. Most options can be controlled through environment variables, as you can see in the default configuration provided:

```php
<?php

return [
    'media_library' => [
        'disk' => 'twill_media_library',
        'endpoint_type' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE', 'local'),
        'cascade_delete' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE', false),
        'local_path' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH', 'uploads'),
        'image_service' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE', 'A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Glide'),
        'acl' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_ACL', 'private'),
        'filesize_limit' => env('MEDIA_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT', 50),
        'allowed_extensions' => ['svg', 'jpg', 'gif', 'png', 'jpeg'],
        'init_alt_text_from_filename' => true,
        'prefix_uuid_with_local_path' => config('twill.file_library.prefix_uuid_with_local_path', false),
        'translated_form_fields' => false,
        'show_file_name' => false,
        'media_caption_use_wysiwyg' => false,
        'media_caption_wysiwyg_options' => [
            'modules' => [
                'toolbar' => [
                    'bold',
                    'italic',
                ],
            ],
        ],
    ],
];
```

Twill's media library supports the following endpoint types: `s3`, `azure` and `local`.

### Local endpoint

By default, Twill stores media and files in the local filesystem, if you want you can specify this using the following environment variables.

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
MEDIA_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH=uploads
```

To avoid running into `too large` errors when uploading to your server, you can choose to limit uploads through Twill using the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable or `filesize_limit` configuration option. It is set to 50mb by default. Make sure to setup your PHP and webserver (apache, nginx, ....) to allow for the upload size specified here. 

When using the `s3` endpoint type, uploads are not limited in size.

### S3 endpoint
As an alternative, Twill can use the `s3` endpoint type to store your uploads on an AWS S3 bucket.
To authorize uploads to S3, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=s3
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
```

Optionally, you can use the `S3_REGION` variable to specify a region other than S3's default region (`us-east-1`).

If you prefer to use another S3 compliant storage such as Minio, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
S3_ENDPOINT=https://YOUR_S3_DOMAIN
```

When uploading images to S3, Twill sets the `acl` parameter to `private`. This is because images in your bucket should not be publicly accessible when using a service like [Imgix](https://imgix.com) on top of it.
Only Imgix should have read-only access to your bucket, while your application obviously needs to have write access.
If you intend to access images uploaded to S3 directly, set the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_ACL` variable or `acl` configuration option to `public-read`.

### Azure endpoint

Twill supports `azure` endpoint type to store your uploads on an Microsoft Azure container.

To authorize uploads to Azure, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=azure

AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY
AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME
AZURE_CONTAINER=AZURE_CONTAINER
```

### Cascading uploads deletions

By default, Twill will not delete images when deleting from Twill's media library UI, wether it is on S3 or locally.

You can decide to physically delete uploaded images using the `cascade_delete` option, which is also controlled through the `MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE` boolean environment variable:

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE=false
```

### Allowed extensions

The `allowed_extensions` configuration option is an array of file extensions that Twill's media library's uploader will accept. By default, `svg`, `jpg`, `gif`, `png` and `jpeg` extensions are allowed.

### Images rendering

To render uploaded images, Twill's preferred service is [Imgix](https://imgix.com).

If you do not want or cannot use a third party service, or have very limited image rendering needs,
Twill also provides a (default) local image rendering service powered by [Glide](https://glide.thephpleague.com/). The following .env variables should get you up and running:

:::alert=type.warning:::
If the media cropper is not working, it is advised to add `img/*` to the `cors.php` exceptions.
:::#alert:::

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE="A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Glide"
```

If you want to add support for other image formats, which aren't covered by Glide, you can specify an array of extensions. For files matching the ending, the original media URL will be returned, instead of the modified one. For this, you can specify the following configuration key: `glide.original_media_for_extensions`

```php
<?php

return [
    'source' => env('GLIDE_SOURCE', storage_path('app/public/' . config('twill.media_library.local_path'))),
    'source_path_prefix' => env('GLIDE_SOURCE_PATH_PREFIX', null),
    'cache' => env('GLIDE_CACHE', storage_path('app')),
    'cache_path_prefix' => env('GLIDE_CACHE_PATH_PREFIX', 'glide_cache'),
    'base_url' => env('GLIDE_BASE_URL', config('app.url')),
    'base_path' => env('GLIDE_BASE_PATH', 'img'),
    'use_signed_urls' => env('GLIDE_USE_SIGNED_URLS', false),
    'sign_key' => env('GLIDE_SIGN_KEY'),
    'driver' => env('GLIDE_DRIVER', 'gd'),
    'add_params_to_svgs' => false,
    'default_params' => [
        'fm' => 'jpg',
        'q' => '80',
        'fit' => 'max',
    ],
    'lqip_default_params' => [
        'fm' => 'gif',
        'blur' => 100,
        'dpr' => 1,
    ],
    'social_default_params' => [
        'fm' => 'jpg',
        'w' => 900,
        'h' => 470,
        'fit' => 'crop',
    ],
    'cms_default_params' => [
        'q' => '60',
        'dpr' => '1',
    ],
    'presets' => [],
    'original_media_for_extensions' => ['svg'],
];
```

#### Imgix

As noted above, Twill can use and recommends using [Imgix](https://imgix.com) to transform, optimize,
and intelligently cache your uploaded images.

Specify your Imgix source url using the `IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST` environment variable or `source_host` configuration option.

```bash
MEDIA_LIBRARY_IMAGE_SERVICE="A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Imgix"
IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST=source.imgix.net
```

By default, Twill will render Imgix urls with the `https` scheme.
We do not see any reason why you would do so nowadays, but you can decide to opt-out using the `IMGIX_USE_HTTPS` environment variable or `use_https` configuration option.

Imgix offers the ability to use signed urls to prevent users from accessing images without parameters or different parameters than the ones you choose to use in your own application. You can enable that feature in Twill using the `IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS` environment variable or `use_signed_urls` configuration option. If you enable signed urls, Imgix provides you with a signature key. Provide it to Twill using the `IMGIX_SIGN_KEY` environment variable.

```bash
IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS=true
IMGIX_SIGN_KEY=
```

:::alert=type.danger:::
You should never store any sort of credentials in source control (eg. Git).

That's exactly why in the case of the Imgix signature key, we do not say that you could provide it to Twill using the sign_key configuration option of the Imgix configuration array.

Always use environment variables for credentials.
:::#alert:::

Finally, Twill's default Imgix configuration includes 4 different image transformation parameter sets that are used by helpers you will find in the [media library's documentation](../7_media-library):

- `default_params`: used by all image url functions in `A17\Twill\Services\MediaLibrary\Imgix` but overridden by the following parameter sets
- `lqip_default_params`: used by the Low Quality Image Placeholder url function
- `social_default_params`: used by the social image url function (for Facebook, Twitter, ... shares)
- `cms_default_params`: used by the CMS image url function. This only affects rendering of images in Twill's admin console (eg. in the media library and image fields).

See [Imgix's API reference](https://docs.imgix.com/apis/url) for more information about those parameters.

```php
<?php

return [
    'imgix' => [
        'source_host' => env('IMGIX_SOURCE_HOST'),
        'use_https' => env('IMGIX_USE_HTTPS', true),
        'use_signed_urls' => env('IMGIX_USE_SIGNED_URLS', false),
        'sign_key' => env('IMGIX_SIGN_KEY'),
        'add_params_to_svgs' => false,
        'default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'jpg',
            'q' => '80',
            'auto' => 'compress,format',
            'fit' => 'min',
        ],
        'lqip_default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'gif',
            'auto' => 'compress',
            'blur' => 100,
            'dpr' => 1,
        ],
        'social_default_params' => [
            'fm' => 'jpg',
            'w' => 900,
            'h' => 470,
            'fit' => 'crop',
            'crop' => 'entropy',
        ],
        'cms_default_params' => [
            'q' => 60,
            'dpr' => 1,
        ],
    ],
];
```

## File library

The `file_library` configuration array in `config/twill.php` allows you to provide Twill with your configuration for the file library disk, endpoint type and other options depending on your endpoint type.
Most options can be controlled through environment variables, as you can see in the default configuration provided:

```php
<?php

return [
    'file_library' => [
        'disk' => 'twill_file_library',
        'endpoint_type' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE', 'local'),
        'cascade_delete' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE', false),
        'local_path' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH', 'uploads'),
        'file_service' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_FILE_SERVICE', 'A17\Twill\Services\FileLibrary\Disk'),
        'acl' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_ACL', 'public-read'),
        'filesize_limit' => env('FILE_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT', 50),
        'allowed_extensions' => [],
        'prefix_uuid_with_local_path' => false,
    ],
];
```

Twill's file library supports the following endpoint types: `s3`, `azure`, and `local`.

### Local endpoint

This is the default configration in Twill.
But you can still define the `FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH` environment variable or the `file_library.local_path`
configuration option to provide Twill with your preferred upload path. Always include a trailing slash like in the following example:

```bash
FILE_LIBRARY_ENDPOINT_TYPE=local
FILE_LIBRARY_LOCAL_PATH=uploads/
```

To avoid running into `too large` errors when uploading to your server, you can choose to limit uploads through Twill using the `FILE_LIBRARY_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable or `filesize_limit` configuration option. It is set to 50mb by default. Make sure to setup your PHP and webserver (apache, nginx, ....) to allow for the upload size specified here. When using the `s3` endpoint type, uploads are not limited in size.

### S3 endpoint

As alternative you can use the `s3` endpoint type to store your uploads on an AWS S3 bucket.
To authorize uploads to S3, provide your application with the following environment variables:

```bash
S3_KEY=S3_KEY
S3_SECRET=S3_SECRET
S3_BUCKET=bucket-name
```

Optionally, you can use the `S3_REGION` variable to specify a region other than S3's default region (`us-east-1`).

When uploading files to S3, Twill sets the `acl` parameter to `public-read`. This is because Twill's default file service produces direct S3 urls. If you do not intend to access files uploaded to S3 directly, set
the `FILE_LIBRARY_ACL` variable or `acl` configuration option to `public-read`.

### Cascading uploads deletions

By default, Twill will not delete files when deleting from Twill's file library's UI, wether it is on S3 or locally.

You can decide to physically delete uploaded files using the `cascade_delete` option, which is also controlled through the `FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE` boolean environment variable:

```bash
FILE_LIBRARY_CASCADE_DELETE=false
```

### Files url service

Twill's provided service for files creates direct urls to the disk they were uploaded to
(ie. S3 urls or urls on your domain depending on your endpoint type). You can change the default service using the `FILE_LIBRARY_FILE_SERVICE` environment variable or the `file_library.file_service` configuration option.

See the [file library's documentation](../7_media-library/file-library.md) for more information.

### Allowed extensions

The `allowed_extensions` configuration option is an array of file extensions that Twill's file library uploader will accept. By default, it is empty, all extensions are allowed.
